A Management VLAN is a dedicated VLAN (Virtual Local Area Network) used exclusively to manage and 
access network devices (like switches and routers) without mixing with regular user traffic.


Step 1: Set the Hostname and Domain Name

    Switch> enable
    Switch# configure terminal

    ! Set hostname
    Switch(config)# hostname Switch0

    ! Set domain name
    Switch0(config)# ip domain-name switch.com
Explanation:
    SSH requires both a hostname and domain name to generate encryption keys.
	hostname: Defines a unique name for the switch.
	ip domain-name: Required to generate RSA encryption keys for SSH.

Step 2: Generate RSA Encryption Keys

    Switch0(config)# crypto key generate rsa

SSH uses RSA keys for encryption. Without encryption, your credentials could be intercepted.    
When prompted, enter 2048 for key length:
The name for the keys will be: Switch0.switch.com
Choose the size of the key modulus (512-4096): 2048

Explanation:
	crypto key generate rsa: Creates RSA encryption keys needed for SSH.
	2048-bit key size ensures stronger encryption.

Step 3: Enable SSH Version 2

    Switch0(config)# ip ssh version 2

Explanation:
	SSH version 2 is more secure and recommended over version 1.

Step 4: Create a Local User Account

    Switch0(config)# username admin secret MySecurePassword
Explanation:
	This creates a local user account (admin) with the password (MySecurePassword).
	secret encrypts the password in the configuration file.

Step 5: Configure Virtual Terminal (vty) Lines for SSH Access

    Switch0(config)# line vty 0 4

    ! Allow only SSH connections
    Switch0(config-line)# transport input ssh

    ! Use local user authentication
    Switch0(config-line)# login local

    ! Exit line configuration
    Switch0(config-line)# exit

Explanation:
    VTY lines (Virtual Teletype lines) are virtual interfaces on a switch or router that allow remote access. 
    Think of them as virtual "doors" that you connect through when using SSH or Telnet.
    vty 0 4 means there are 5 virtual lines available (line 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4).
    These lines allow up to 5 simultaneous remote users to access the switch.
	line vty 0 4: Configures virtual terminal lines (used for remote access).
	transport input ssh: Restricts access to SSH only (disables Telnet).
	login local: Requires the switch to authenticate users with locally configured credentials.

Step 6: Verify SSH Configuration

! Check SSH status
    Switch0# show ip ssh

    ! Verify vty configuration
    Switch0# show running-config | section line vty

Explanation:
	show ip ssh: Confirms SSH is enabled and displays settings.
	show running-config | section line vty: Displays the vty line configuration.

Step 7: Assign an IP Address to the Management VLAN

    Switch0(config)# interface vlan 1
    Switch0(config-if)# ip address 192.168.1.100 255.255.255.0
    Switch0(config-if)# no shutdown
    Switch0(config-if)# exit
Explanation:
	interface vlan 1: Configures VLAN 1 (default management interface).
	ip address: Assigns an IP address to the switch.
	no shutdown: Ensures the VLAN interface is active.

Step 8: (Optional) Set Default Gateway (If Required)
If the switch is accessed from another subnet, configure the default gateway:

    Switch0(config)# ip default-gateway 192.168.1.1
Explanation:
	This sets the gateway IP address for traffic to leave the local subnet.

Step 9: Test SSH Acc 
    ssh admin@192.168.1.100

1.	Ensure a PC is connected to the switch and on the same subnet.
2.	From the PC, we can connect to the swich and verify.
